---
title: "Workshops"
bg: orange
color: white
fa-icon: laptop
---
{::options parse_block_html="true" /}
<div class="day">
## Thursday, February 9th

<div class="card">
<div class="card-title" markdown="1">
#### Database Creation - REDCap

##### 9:00am - 11:00am
</div>

<div class="card-body" markdown="1">
**Instructor:** Navona <br>

**Description:** REDCap is a web application for building and managing surveys and databases. It requires little programming knowledge, and it's increasingly used at CAMH for multiple purposes.

**You'll learn:**

- How to design a study in REDCap
-	Sending surveys to participants
-	Setting up basic branching and display logic
-	Exporting data and generating reports
-	Using internal applications to review data quality

**Prerequisites**: None

<br/>
<br/>
<br/>

</div>
<div class="card-footer">
<a href="#workshop-schedule-and-registration">Register</a> | <a href="{{site.root}}/workshops/access">Webpage</a>
</div>
</div>

<div class="card">
<div class="card-title" markdown="1">
#### Database Management - REDCap

##### 11:00am - 1:00pm
</div>
<div class="card-body" markdown="1">
**Instructor:** Steve <br>

**Description:** You’ve built a project in REDCap, and now would like to learn more about this software.

**You'll learn:**

1.	  Customized Data Export with Reports tool
2.    User Rights, multi-site access and DAGs
3.    Randomization module
4.    Data quality module
5.    Data resolution workflow
6.    Project audit with Logging tool

**Prerequisites**: Database Creation - REDCap

<br/>
<br/>
<br/>

</div>
<div class="card-footer">
<a href="#workshop-schedule-and-registration">Register</a> | <a href="{{site.root}}/workshops/redcap">Webpage</a>
</div>
</div>

<div class="card">
<div class="card-title" markdown="1">
#### Data Collection - REDCap Surveys

##### 1:00pm - 3:00pm
</div>
<div class="card-body" markdown="1">
**Instructor:** Natalia <br>

**Description:** REDCap is a web application for building and managing surveys and databases. It requires little programming knowledge, and it's increasingly used at CAMH for multiple purposes.

**You'll learn:**

1.    Survey Design.
2.    Inviting Participants by email.
3.    Types of surveys: anonymous and non-anonymous.
4.    Public link and individual links.
5.    Survey Queue and Autocontinue option.
6.    Survey notifications
7.    Automatic survey invitations vs manual
8.    Data Import Tool
9.    REDCap Mobile

**Prerequisites**: Database Creation - REDCap

<br/>
<br/>
<br/>

</div>
<div class="card-footer">
<a href="#workshop-schedule-and-registration">Register</a> | <a href="{{site.root}}/workshops/redcap">Webpage</a>
</div>
</div>

<div class="card">
<div class="card-title" markdown="1">
#### Data Collection - Using Excel

##### 3:00pm - 5:00pm
</div>
<div class="card-body" markdown="1">

**Instructor:** Yuliya<br>
**Helper:** Arin

**Description:** Everyone knows what a spreadsheet is, but most people use them terribly inefficiently.

**You'll learn:**

 - How to set up a spreadsheet for research logs and data
 - Autofilling in sequences
 - Avoiding “copy and paste” by using cell references
 - What a “formula” is
 - How to auto-update cells
 - Helpful data cleaning tools

**Prerequisites:** Basic familiarity with spreadsheets (Excel/Openoffice)

</div>
<div class="card-footer">
<a href="#workshop-schedule-and-registration">Register</a> | <a href="{{site.root}}/workshops/spreadsheets">Webpage</a>
</div>
</div>

</div><div class="day">

## Friday, February 10th 

<div class="card">
<div class="card-title" markdown="1">
#### Database Creation - MS Access

##### 9:00am - 11:00am
</div>
<div class="card-body" markdown="1">

**Instructor:** Ricardo & Tom <br>

**Description:** Many of us are using data that is stored in Access databases but do not know how to these databases are built or how to make improvements.

**You'll learn:**

- Basic architecture: table, form, query, report and why do you need them.
- How to create/modify tables. Tips and tricks.
- How to create/modify forms. Form Wizard.
- How to extract data from the database. Queries vs reports. Query Wizard, Report Wizard.
- How to make something happen when you click on a button.
- Using parameters to filter data.
- Linking tables/forms (example: multiple appointments for one person)

**Prerequisites:** Familiarity with spreadsheets.

<br/>
<br/>
<br/>

</div>
<div class="card-footer">
<a href="#workshop-schedule-and-registration">Register</a>
</div>
</div>

<div class="card">
<div class="card-title" markdown="1">
#### Data Analysis - SPSS

##### 11:00am - 1:00pm
</div>
<div class="card-body" markdown="1">
**Instructor:** Marcia <br>

**Description:** SPSS can be very useful for simple data exploration to advanced statistics. It is widely used at CAMH and is a tool very much worth knowing.

**You'll learn:**

 - What is SPSS
 - Types of data and how to enter them into SPSS
 - Data manipulation – Creating new variables
 - Data manipulation – Sorting
 - Basic data analysis – Means, Frequencies and Crosstabs

**Prerequisites:** Some familiarity with data in general, no previous knowledge of SPSS is required

**You'll need:** Just you - computer and SPSS will be provided in lab, BUT if you have a laptop with SPSS, please bring it!

<br/>
<br/>

</div>
<div class="card-footer">
<a href="#workshop-schedule-and-registration">Register</a> | <a href="{{site.root}}/workshops/spss">Webpage</a>
</div>
</div>


<div class="card">
<div class="card-title" markdown="1">
#### Data Cleaning - R

##### 1:00pm - 3:00pm
</div>
<div class="card-body" markdown="1">

**Instructor:** Erin <br>

**Description:** R is a free, featureful and sometimes magical language for doing statistical analysis. This workshop will introduce you to R and the Rstudio enviroment.

**You'll learn:**

- Reading you data into and R dataframe
- Sorting/merging/filtering your data tables
- Getting summary statistics

**Prerequisites**: Familiarity with another programming language


</div>
<div class="card-footer">
<a href="#workshop-schedule-and-registration">Register</a> | <a href="{{site.root}}/workshops/intro-R">Webpage</a>
</div>
</div>


<div class="card">
<div class="card-title" markdown="1">
#### Data Analysis and Reporting - R

##### 3:00pm - 5:00pm
</div>
<div class="card-body" markdown="1">
**Instructor:** Erin <br>

**Description:** You know the basic functionality of R, but the hardest part is getting your data in order. In this workshop you’ll learn some fundamental ways of organizing and manipulating datasets, as well as visualising your data.

**You'll learn:**

- Reorganize/Reshape your dataset with tidyr and dplyr
-	Quickly create stats tables
-	Plotting and visualization with ggplot2

**Prerequisites**: Basic familiarity with R (i.e. Introduction to R)

<br/>
<br/>
<br/>

</div>
<div class="card-footer">
<a href="#workshop-schedule-and-registration">Register</a> | <a href="{{site.root}}/workshops/explore_with_R.html">Webpage</a>
</div>
</div>


</div>
